Clarification regarding RA replacing Evidence with Attestation Result (#192)
lamps-wg/csr-attestation: draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation.md

{{fig-arch-background}} shows the high-level communication pattern of the RATS
background check model where the Attester transmits the Evidence in the
CSR to the Registration Authority (RA) and the Certification Authority (CA),
which is subsequently forwarded to the Verifier.
The Verifier appraises the received Evidence and computes an Attestation
Result, which is then processed by the RA/CA prior to the certificate

> issuance. The RA and CA are depicted as separate entities with the RA
> consuming the Attestation Results and deciding whether or not to forward
> the certificate request to the CA, but since the
> communication between RA and CA is out-of-scope, they can be conceptualized
> as a single Relying Party entity for the purposes of this specification.
> This diagram overlays PKI entities with RATS roles in parentheses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
issuance. 
The RA and CA are depicted as separate entities with the RA
consuming the Attestation Results and deciding whether or not to forward
the certificate request to the CA.
In some deployments they are co-located roles.
In other deployments, the RA uses a proprietary interface into the CA.
In either case,
communication between RA and CA is out-of-scope, they can be conceptualized
as a single Relying Party entity for the purposes of this specification.
This diagram overlays PKI entities with RATS roles in parentheses.
```

                        |<-----------------|
                        |                  |
~~~
{: #fig-csr-client-p11 title="Example interaction between CSR generator and HSM."}

## Separation of RA and CA roles with respect to Attestation Results {#sec-impl-ar}

As described in {{architecture}}, CSRs MAY contain either Evidence or Attestation Results (AR),
and also the Registration Authority (RA) and Certification Authority (CA) MAY be conceptualized as
a single Relying Party entity, or as separate entities. There are some implications here worth discussion.

In many cases, the Evidence contained within a CSR is intended to be consumed by the RA and not
to be placed into the issued certificate.
In some RA / CA architectures, it MAY be appropriate for the RA to "consume" the Evidence
and remove it from the CSR, re-signing the CSR with an RA signing key.
The mechanics of doing this in a CRMF CSR are more complex since an RA is not allowed to modify
the `certReq` field when a proof-of-possession `popo` field is present, so an additional CRMF control
could be required to indicate that the `ext-evidence` or `ext-ar` extensions are not to be copied

> into the issued certificate. Such CRMF controls are not defined in this document.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence is wrong. CRMF can use for the ProofOfPossession choice raVerified. Instead PKCS#10 requires a self-signature as proof-of-posession.

Author: I simplified the paragraph based on your input

~~~
{: #fig-csr-client-p11 title="Example interaction between CSR generator and HSM."}

## Separation of RA and CA roles with respect to Attestation Results {#sec-impl-ar}

As described in {{architecture}}, CSRs MAY contain either Evidence or Attestation Results (AR),
and also the Registration Authority (RA) and Certification Authority (CA) MAY be conceptualized as
a single Relying Party entity, or as separate entities. There are some implications here worth discussion.

In many cases, the Evidence contained within a CSR is intended to be consumed by the RA and not

> to be placed into the issued certificate.

Reviewer: Are there cases where Evidence does go into the resulting certificate?
(I didn't think so)

Author: I do not think so either. This would be a bit too verbose IMHO and could cause all sorts of privacy challenges.
